Deadline
Since the mini-projects are a significant portion of your grade, you want to avoid late penalties on these
assignments.

Instructions
The purpose of this Mini-Project is to have you explore a dataset. Some of the tasks required to do this
project have not been covered in STAT 380. This is typical of a project in which you have some
knowledge, but you must develop new skills as well.

Data
The dataset CODGames2_mp.xlsx contains information about the results of an online, first-person
shooter video game. In the game, the player is part of a team trying to eliminate enemy combatants and/or
achieve objectives. Each row represents the results of a single online match. All rows correspond to the
same player. Currently, no description of the variables is available.

Submission
Each team should submit both an .rmd file and an html file. Be sure to use headers to separate the tasks.
This assignment is meant to be more formal than a typical HW assignment. A portion of the grade
(approximately 4-5 points out of 30 points) will be assigned regarding the neatness and quality of your
work. Be sure to proofread to correct typos, fix headings that are not displaying properly, correct hanging
sentences (sentences/paragraphs that start immediately to the right of a plot but conclude below the plot),
ensure plots are readable and use customized axis titles rather than raw variable names, be sure that
discussions are not R comments placed in R chunks, and make an effort to write thoughtful discussions.
Also, be sure that your discussions are near the associated plots and output instead of doing all code
followed by all discussion.
For this assignment, you have the option to work alone or with a small group. If you know nothing about
these types of video games, it may be helpful to work with someone that does. This is a good opportunity
to try out teammates for the final project.
Each student should submit the report (both the .rmd file and the html file). If you work with other
students, include the names of any students that you worked with in your report and a discussion of each
2
group member’s contributions. (All group members should submit the same report.) Although students
like a divide-and-conquer approach to reduce the amount of work, all group members are expected to read
and contribute to the work done by others.
Frequently Asked Questions
• Question: Is there a limit on the number of students working together? Groups may include up to 4
students; however, all group members should be contributing. If you did the work by yourself, do
not allow others to get credit if they have not contributed.
• Question: If I work with others, can we submit the same report? Yes, but we only need one report
from each team. When you make your submission, make sure that all participants’ names are
listed in the report, and make sure that you include a discussion of group member contributions.
• Question: What if I do not know anything about these types of video games? Ask questions, read
about the game, work with people who do. Although knowledge of the game should help, I do not
assume that you are familiar with it. Your grade is not based on your understanding of the game.

Tasks
1. Read the dataset into R.
  • We have not covered methods for reading an .xlsx file into R.
  • Yes, you could save as .csv but that risks potential data loss.
  • It would be better to search for a method (R function) that allows you to open .xlsx files in R.
  • Include a brief discussion of how you found a solution to for this. For example, if you used
    generative AI, include the name of the tool you used, your prompt, and the generative AI solution.
    If you did a Google search, list the search query you entered and provide a link to the
    website/tutorial that helped you accomplish this task. If you knew how to do this without looking
    for help, mention this.
2. Begin to explore the dataset. Explore 5 variables of your choice. (You should explore at least one
   categorical and at least one quantitative variable.) Perform a univariate exploration of each variable. In
   other words, do not look at the relationship between pairs of variables. Instead, just explore each variable
   by itself.
  • For each, you should identify the variable, the type of variable (categorical, quantitative, etc.),
    information about the types of values the variable can take, and the amount of missing data within
    the variable.
  • For each variable, report some summary statistics and make a visualization.
      o If a variable is categorical, make a table of possible values and include counts or
        proportions. Then, make an appropriate plot to show the distribution of values.
      o If a variable is quantitative, include some basic summary stats like the mean, median,
        standard deviation, min, max, etc. Then, make an appropriate plot to show the distribution
        of values.
  • For each variable, you should write a few sentences to describe what you have learned about the
    variable. Incorporate the summary statistics and comment on the amount of missingness into your
    discussion. Remember, the goal is not to make the plot/calculate the summaries. The goal is to use
    plots and summaries to gain knowledge from the data.
3
  • Place each discussion next to the relevant plot/summary statistics rather than writing code for all 5
    variables first followed by all discussion. If you the discussions are not near the plots, it makes it
    difficult for your audience to follow your explanations without excessive scrolling.
3. Begin a list of questions that you have about the dataset. Suppose you are working on a project and
   your manager gives you this dataset. Write 3 questions that you would ask your manager.
  • You have not been given any information about what the variables represent. So, if you are unsure
    about the meaning of any of the variables, write your questions.
  • You have not been given any information about how the data were collected. If you have
    questions about the data collection, write them down.
  • If you have any other questions, write them down.
  • NOTE: Even if you are familiar with the game and think that you understand the meaning of the
    variables, you are still expected to write 3 potential questions that you could ask.
4. Asking a question that can be answered using the dataset and data visualization.
  • Part 1 – You will answer my question: Is the player’s performance, as quantified by the amount of
    experience points gained (TotalXP variable) changing over time?
      o To answer this, you should find a way to extract the month from the Date variable (we
        have not covered working with dates in STAT 380)
      o The lubridate package (part of tidyverse) is useful for working with dates
      o Once you have the months, create side-by-side boxplots showing the TotalXP based on the
        Month, where the months are named (i.e., month should be June, not the number 6). The
        months should be in chronological order, not alphabetical order
      o Based on the plot, answer the question. As part of this, explain how you are using the plot
        and/or summary statistics to reach your conclusion.
  • Part 2 – You will write your own question, create a data visualization that can help answer your
    question, and write an answer to your question. The question/visualization should explore the
    relationship between at least 2 of the variables in the dataset. Be sure you include both the
    question and the answer to your question based on the visualization you have created. (If I have to
    guess as to what your question was based on the analysis, the question was NOT clearly stated and
    you will be penalized.)
